From: WhitBrown@aol.com

Below is textual copy of Paul's article from QST May, 1995.
============
TROLLING FOR MASTER IIs from QST May, 1995
By Paul Gilbert, KE5ZW
2608 El Toro Dr, No. 111-B
Huntsville, TX 77340
vis_pfg@pip.shsu.edu

Many hams today feel that they need to have the latest and greatest 
Gee-Whiz XYZ-345 all-mode radio with nine zillion channels, just to 
work their local repeater. In the frenzy to keep up with that trend, 
many great buys of used commercial gear are overlooked at hamfests 
and auctions.

Look for familiar brand names and models. When purchasing a used 
commercial radio, such as the General Electric Master II, see if 
it's for VHF or UHF and check its options, because many dealers 
don't know. Because I'm most familiar with the GEs, I can give some 
info and hints on the GE Master II.

Although most of these great commercial radios are 
crystal-controlled, and big and clunky, they can be excellent buys 
at $100 or less.

The Master II mobile was made in the late 1970s and the '80s as a 
replacement for the Master Pro. It's a trunk-mount radio with a 
control head and cable arrangement mounted in the driver's 
compartment. The radio came in frequencies from 29 MHz to 800 MHz 
with one, two or eight channels.

To determine what model you're looking at, decode the combination 
number printed on the metal plate to the right of the cable 
connector on the Master II. The combo number is on the back of the 
radio on an MVP and under the handle on an Exec II. Look for a 66 in 
the combination number for a VHF rig and an 88 or 78 for UHF. These 
will be the eighth and ninth digits in the combo number. 

The 66 model has a frequency range of 136 to 174 MHz. The 78 is for 
420 to 450 MHz and the 88 covers 450 to 470 MHz. The radios can be 
easily tuned to the ham bands with no modifications, with one minor 
exception for using the 88 or 450 to 470-MHz radio in the 420 MHz 
range: You must add a 5-pF capacitor to three coils (T-106, 107 and 
108) in the exciter, and order receive crystals for high-side 
injection. Then tune the radio in a normal fashion. Otherwise, order 
crystals and tune per manufacturers’ specs.

One quick way to tell the UHF version of the Master II is by the 
orange wire coming out of the receiver going to a point on the 
circuit board in front of the receiver cans.

Master II models came with various output-power levels from 40 to 
110 W, depending on frequency. The power of the radio is the third 
digit from the left of the combo number. A 4 is 20 W, 5 is 40 W, 6 
is 75 W and 7 is 110 W.

There were two basic versions of the UHF power amplifiers. The early 
versions used a large hybrid power-control chip (usually black) and 
had a blue, flat power-control pot. Later versions had a 
multicomponent power-control circuit and a red pot. The “red pot” 
version is more desirable for ham use and 420 MHz work because it 
will put out full or near-full power in the 440 to 420 range. The 
older “blue pot” version is about 50% efficient in the 420 range.

Other things you can learn from the combo number are the number of 
channels the radio will use, whether it's equipped with CTCSS, and 
if it has a receiver preamp built in. Channel capabilities are 
listed in the fifth-digit position: A for 1, C for 2 and K for 8. 
The CTCSS option is the seventh digit : S for no CTCSS, U for CTCSS, 
P for no CTCSS with receive preamp and G for CTCSS and preamp.

Other Master II trivia includes the case style the radio was built 
in. The most common Master II radio comes in the standard case, 
about 2-1/2 inches thick, with only one receiver and transmitter. 
It's painted a medium olive gray.

Another case style is the E-line case. It was made to accommodate 
several options, including four additional channels (for a total of 
12), a second receiver or transmitter, and a synthesized 
transmitter/receiver option, or combinations of the above.

The E-line radios were about 5 inches thick and very heavy. The 
first digit of the combo number would be an E on those radios. They 
were painted the same medium olive gray. Some that were in UHF IMTS 
mobile phone service have four-can UHF mobile duplexers in them.

Depending on which model you find, there may be other options that 
can be determined from the combo number. A GE Master II manual has 
most of them.

Moving on to the control head: there were three basic versions, with 
many options and variations.

The most common control head was the C-500 or clamshell-style head. 
It can handle 12 channels and has an option of a one-channel 
priority scan.

The C-800 was the most common scan head made for the Master II. It 
was big, at 9x5x7 inches, and it would scan up to eight channels, 
with several options available.

Last is the C-900. You think the C-800 is big until you see one of 
these! it was half again larger than the C-800. It has buttons and 
options such as 12-channel scan, multi-Channel Guard (CTCSS), siren, 
gun release, lights and more. C-900 heads aren’t often found in good 
condition.

Manuals for the Master II often show up at hamfests, or can be 
begged or borrowed from your local two-way shop or friends, and 
people who sell them often advertise in ham magazines.

As a 1970s-vintage radio, the Master II uses a transmit and a 
receive crystal for each channel you want to work. When you order 
the crystals, buy good ones from a company that will warranty them 
for life. The prices range from $9 to $35, depending on the dealer, 
the speed of the service and the tolerance of crystal.1

Because the crystals take time to make, the best price is usually on 
four-week delivery. This will get you better stability because the 
crystals are burned in and tested better than ones ordered by 
requesting 48-hour service.

Master IIs use crystal holders called ICOMs, which come in several 
models. For mobiles, use ones marked EC on the transmit side and EC 
with one 5C on the receive side. The 5C is a frequency-compensation 
ICOM and helps adjust the frequency with changes in temperature. 
Don’t use more than one 5C. It’s best to put the 5C on the receive 
side. The ICOMs are marked for transmit and receive, so try to keep 
that sense correct. By buying good crystals and setting up the 
compensation correctly, you shouldn't have trouble with frequency 
changes.

Other trivia needed for trolling for Master IIs are knowledge of the 
vintage of Channel Guard Boards, SAS boards, Exciter boards and the 
types of cables used.

This information applies mainly to the Master II radio; the MVP and 
Exec II radios are similar in design, but packaged differently. I 
focused on the Master II because I know it best, but much of the 
information on combo numbers and options apply to the MVP and Exec 
II. The MVP was an under-dash-mount radio and the Exec II was a 
trunk-mount version.

Some of these radios have been put through the mill and are long 
overdue for retirement. Buy the radio from someone who will back it 
up if it doesn’t work. If it looks beat up, has corrosion on it or 
is kludged up from several different radios, don’t buy it.

I hope these tips on GE Master II hunting help you troll the 
hamfests for the bargain of the show. These radios can serve you for 
years and escape the fate of the scrap pile.

(1) Sources for crystals include International Crystal Manufacturing 
Co Inc, 701 W Sheridan, PO Box 26330, Oklahoma City, OK 73126; 
800-725-1426, and JAN Crystals, 2341 Crystal Dr, PO Box 06017, Ft 
Myers, FL 33906-6017; 800-526-9825, 813-936-2397, fax 813-936-3750.
¾Mike Tracy, KC1SX, Technical Information Specialist, ARRL Lab


------------------------------------------------------------------------
We have a new web site! http://www.onelist.com
------------------------------------------------------------------------
The ORIGINAL Repeater Owners remailer. Accept no substitutes! 
