1. The rules on station identification vary with the various radio services. I presume your 
system is a Part 90 public safety system.

2. The governing regulation is 47 C.F.R. section 90.425. It is complex enough that you really 
should get a copy, but I believe it may be simplified thus:

ID must be broadcast:

A. once per transmission or exchange of transmissions, plus

B. once per 30 minutes for any exchange of transmissions that lasts longer than 30 minutes.

3. There is no requirement of Morse ID. ID may be stated by the system operator or any dispatcher. 
Morse IDers are used to relieve the operators of the necessity of remembering to do this.

Most Morse IDer are programmed thus:

While radio quiet, IDer is quiet.

Once radio keyed, flag ("IDRequiredTrue") is set true.

Once radio unkeys with IDRequiredTrue set, countdown timer ("TailTime") is set for X seconds. 
(Usually 3 or 5 seconds.)

If, before TailTime expires, radio is keyed again, TailTime is restarted at full value.

IDer IDs if (and as soon as) TailTime timer expires while IDRequiredTrue flag is set.

On ID, a countdown timer ("LastIDTime") is set to 15 minutes (Part 90 commercial) or 30 minutes 
(Part 90 public safety).

IDer will not ID again unless and until LastIDTime expires, and then once radio is thereafter 
keyed, above described sequence repeats itself.

If you examine this sequence carefully, you will see that it is not in literal compliance with
 section 90.425: assume a discrete short set of transmissions; IDer IDs at end; and then before 15 
(or 30) minute timer expires, there is another discrete short exchange of transmissions. IDer will 
not ID again; rule appears to require it. As near as I can tell FCC doesn't care about the discrepancy 
(nor does anyone else).

4. If you do use a Morse IDer, here are a couple of hints on how to keep people from losing 
their sanity:

A. Most IDers and controllers have an option for IDing during quiet periods, e.g., once per 
30 minutes even if the radio is quiet. Kill this option.

B. Most IDers have an option of sending the ID without PL. Use this option. This way your 
users and operational listeners don't have to listen to the ID, which is not for their benefit, but for
 the benefit of the FCC, any co-channel users, and the like.

C. Section 90.425 has some technical requirements for Morse IDers, i.e., code rate, tone 
frequency, and use of polite IDs.

5. While I would never counsel anyone to igore the rules, exactly zero of the police departments 
whose radio operation I have reason to be familiar with broadcasts a station identification complying with 
section 90.425 more than once per day. This has been the case for over 30 years. I'm unaware of any police 
department being cited for failure to give proper ID.